# Information Behavior
Useful links: https://faculty.washington.edu/harryb/courses/INFO%20Course/Presentations.htm

## Definition
The totality of human behavior in relation to sources and channels of information, including both active and passive information seeking and information use. (Wilson, 2000)
- Active information behavior i.e. face-to-face communications with others.
- Passive information behavior i.e. watching TV advertisements without any intention to act on the information given.

**Information seeking behavior**: purposive seeking for information as a consequence of a need to satisfy some goals. The individual may interact with manual information systems (newspapers, libraries) or with computer-based systems (internet).

**Information searching behavior**: micro-level of behavior employed by the searcher in interacting with information systems of all kinds. It consists of all the interactions with the system, whether at the level of ==human computer interaction== (using mouse to click on links) or ==at the intellectual level== (adopting Boolean search strategy or determining the criteria of two books selected from library shelf for deciding which of them is most useful).

**Information use behavior**: consists of the physical and mental acts involved in incorporating the information found into the person's existing knowledge base. 
- Physical acts: marking sections in a text to note their importance.
- Mental acts: comparison of new information with existing knowledge.

## Human Information Behavior (HIB)
The study of how individuals need, seek, give, and use information in different context (workplace, school, and everyday living) is called **Human Information Behavior (HIB)**

Information practice is about providing information that may become knowledge for action by actors.
Rational for INFO 414: the key to effective information provision through resources, services, and systems lies not in the increased sophistication of technology, but rather on our *increased understanding of human involvement with information*

**Information users:**
1. Actors
2. Clients
3. End-users
4. User groups
5. Discourse communities

**Principles**
- The decision to seek or not to seek information is affected by many factors.
- There are individual differences in how people seek information.
- People seek information first from their own experience, then from interpersonal sources, especially people like themselves.
- People seek information that is most accessible, and face-to-face communication is a primary source
- People follow habitual patterns when seeking information and use search strategies, institutions, and systems which they have used successfully in the past.
- People phrase questions and seek information in terms of their mental models of the system or source.
- People see information from sources based on the degree to which they are perceived as being helpful, trustworthy, and providing reliable information.
- How information is provided can be as important as the information itself.
- People want understanding and sometimes emotional support from the sources they consult, and sources that do so are considered as helpful, despite whether they provided accurate information or not.

## Conceptual Development
Conceptual development represented by 5 different states
- Information needs
- Problem state
- Uncertainty
- Anomalous State of Knowledge (ASK)
- Discontinuity condition

**Information needs** arise in all aspects of everyday, personal, and professional life: the home, the office, family or friends, etc whenever individuals find themselves in a situation requuiring knowledge to deal with the situation as they see it. 

The characteristics:
  - Importance (immediate vs deferred)
  - Frequency (recurring vs new)
  - Predictability (anticipated vs unexpected)
  - Complexity (easily resolved vs difficult)
  - Causation (internal vs external)
  
  Types:
   - **By nature of expected answer**: ==know item need== (the answer that is required is a known item) and ==subject need== (the answer that is required is information on a particular subject).
   - **By generator of the need**: ==self need== (a need generated by the person who is looking for the answers) ==proxy need== (a need generated by another person or imposed need).

Taylor (1968 ??)


**Problem state** is the situation of an individual whose internal models of environment, knowledge, actions, etc are insufficient to attain the appropriate goals. This may require input from external resources in order to attain the degrees of certainty required for reasonable action. (Wersig, 1979)

Belkin (1984): Problem state
- the state of the user in the problem treatment process
- the topic and type of problem the user is facing
- the user's state of knowledge about the problem
- the goals intentions and background of the user

Problem Orientation (Saracevic, 1988)
- No such thing as information need in the abstract but rather circumstances that lead to information behavior.
- There is more to question than the words expressing it.
- Viewing the problem behind the question rather than the information need as central to the information retrieval interaction.

Internal and cognitive aspects of problem orientation:
- Problem
- Intent
- Internal knowledge state
- Public knowledge expectation

External and environmental aspects ???

**Anomalous State of Knowledge (ASK)** is engagement in information when their state of knowledge concerning some particular situation or topic are considered by them as somehow being insufficient or inadequate for that situation. There are anomalies (gaps, uncertainties, lack of relation or concept, etc) in their conceptual state of knowledge concerning topic, which they perceive as needing to be resolved in order to achieve their goals.

**Uncertainty** happens due to lack of understanding, a gap in meaning, or a limited construct initiates the process. ==Information seeking== process is a progression from uncertainty to understanding accompanied by range of feelings and actions on the part of the information seeker.

**Discontinuity condition** is constant for human beings, this forces steps to be taken to construct sense in life situations that are constantly changing.


## Information Seeking
How and individual goes about obtaining information. Three types of information seeking:
1. Purposive - immediate need
2. Gathering - deferred need
3. Serendipitous - Accidental encountering

Factors affecting information seeking:
- Seeker's awareness of need and sources.
- Seeker's past experiences, professional practice
- Source characteristics:
	- Formal (book) vs informal (conversation)
	- Internal (inside organization) vs external
	- Format/presentation
	- Timeliness
	- Cost (financial, physical, social)
	- Accessibility
	- Trustworthiness (accuracy, quality)

Types of information seeking by level of purpose:
- Surfing: browsing through a source of information, just to see what it has, without a particular information need.
	- Reading the daily newspaper
	- Watching programs on TV
	- Visiting a bookstore
	- Surfing the web

- Encountering: bumpering into information that can resolve a particular information need when doing other things.
	- Also called:
		- Accidental discovery of information
		- Incidental information acquisition
	- Can happen when:
		- Searching for information to resolve another need
		- Surfing
		- Any other activity

Outcomes of information seeking:
- Satisfy immediate info need/solve problem.
- Store for future use.
- Create new information need through feedback.

## Information Searching
Search behavior: what they think and do when they search.
Search process
- Kuhlthau (1991): user's constructive activity of finding meaning from information in order to extend his or her state of knowledge on a particular problem or topic.

**Search techniques or tactics**
- Bates (1979): a move made to further a search
- Belkin and Vickery (1985) : methods, heuristics, tactics, or plans that can be used by people in searching manual or automated information systems.

**Search**
- Bates (1979): the study of the theory, principles, and practice of making and using search strategies and tactics.
- Belkin and Vickery (1985): a plan for whole search on a question or topic.

**Search strategies**
- Browsing: intuitive scanning following leads by association without much planning ahead.
- Analytical: explicit consideration of attributes of the information need and of the search system.
- Empirical: based on previous experience, using roles and tactics that were successful in the past.
- Known site: entering a URL to retrieve a particular site.
- Similarity: find successful information based on a previous successful example that is similar to the current need.

**Information evaluating**: how users decide whether the information they obtained is relevant to their need, that is, if it can resolve their need. The issue:
- Subjective nature of relevance judgement
- Levels of relevance
- Factors affecting relevance

## Information Giving
**Definition**: the act of disseminating messages using different media, including oral, print, electronic, physical gestures. This is part of a communicative event.

Types of information giving:
- Simple: inquirer is given information without further probing
- Complex: comprises giving the same information but after probing to determine the inquirer's real underlying need.

Triggers of information giving:
- A user asks for information directly.
- A user raises a topic about which the giver has information.
- A user describes his/her situation to the giver what has information that can help.
- A user behaves (or shows signs) in a certain way that prompts the giver to give information that will help.
- A giver expects to receive needed information in return.

Strategies for information giving:
- Tailoring complete information to the attributes of a particular need.
- Planting a nugget (giving in anticipation of a situation)
- Pushing, or, making a case for the need of information.
- Presenting information and asking for feedback.

## Information Use
**Definition**: People's subsequent actions upon receiving information and how the perceive that information helped (or did not help) in dealing with a situation.



