# Introduction to Knowledge-Base Intelligent Systems

## Artificial Intelligence
Artificial intelligence is a piece of software that simulates the behaviour and judgement of a human or people that have expertize in particular domain by acquiring relevant knowledge from its knowledge base and interpreting it according to the user's problem.

Knowledge base is data that is added by humans that are expert in a particular domain or historical data.

Expert system does not use classical mathematical problem, it uses knowledge base that generated by expert instead.

Artificial neural network is type of AI that uses historical data as the knowledge base.

>AI that depends on mathematical computation uses model base instead of knowledge base.

Expert system is able to solve social problems that can not be solved by deterministic approach.

Intelligence is ability to learn and understand things, and then make decision based on those knowledge. It does not solve problems by instinct or automatically.

A program can be classified intelligent in some narrow area of expertise is evaluated by comparing its performance with a human expert in certain domain.


**Example:**
- **MYCIN**: identify various bacteria that can cause severe infections and can also recommend drugs based on the person's weight.


AI developments have been surged since the massive implementation of:
1. Paralel computing.
2. Big data.

In some areas such as autonomous vehicle, AI precision is enough. On the other hand,  in different areas, such as healthcare, AI's decision needs to be explainable. So, currently many researchers focus on explainability of the AI decision making, not only just accurate.